BLD1487S | NUEVO FOUNDATION | FACILITATOR RUNBOOK
Prepared September 30, 2026

The goal: build a SKILL and use it in everyday development, spending less time
on issue administration and documentation and making progress easier to see.
The ten PM briefs are optional sequential practice, not ten required features.
Use the "NF Workflow Skills - 2026-09-30" deck, not the older Reviewed deck.
It has 21 timed slides and two hidden recovery/evidence appendices.

MATERIAL ENTRY POINTS

- Students: open lab-guide.html in the assigned writable starter repository.
  README.md contains the full command sequence. index.html is the website canvas.
- Presenter: use a separate prepared copy with an active SKILL. Never put that
  active answer file into the student starter or its distribution archive.
- Reference companion: open README.md. It explains nine concepts and selected
  examples. It is optional take-home material, not another required install.
- Cached proof: evidence\nf-rollout.html and evidence\nf-rollout.json.
- Recovery: rescue\WALKTHROUGH.md and rescue\LOCAL-EVIDENCE.template.txt.

BEFORE THE ROOM

Confirm the actual laptop image, CLI version, assigned host, managed-account
sign-in, GitHub Copilot CLI entitlement/model access, seat-to-repository mapping, Issues,
label creation/application, branch push, local commit identity, and interactive
tool approval behavior. Import the current local starter, not an older public
snapshot. Supply the reference separately. Verify the material links after import.

The starter intentionally contains no active
.github\skills\issue-lifecycle\SKILL.md. Its six numbered parts concatenate to
the exact core merged into the NF website repository. The rescue stays inactive.
Keep hidden .github teaching files when copying or importing the package.

The supplied static HTML, briefs, facts, and images need no website or image
service. GitHub Copilot CLI's hosted model still needs its approved service connection.
GitHub operations need the assigned host and permissions. Rehearse both paths.
No personal-account workaround, token pasted into chat, or policy bypass.

Prepare a separate presenter folder with just these paths:

  .github\skills\issue-lifecycle\SKILL.md
  evidence\nf-rollout.json

Copy the first file from the starter's rescue\issue-lifecycle\SKILL.md and the
second from its evidence folder. Do not create an issue or alter the recorded
production issue for this demonstration. Start GitHub Copilot CLI from that presenter folder.
For the bounded rehearsal, only the local skill/view/glob/rg tools were exposed,
with built-in remote integrations disabled. The observed run selected the SKILL,
produced a clearly labeled preview, and left the fixture unchanged. That run had
hosted-model connectivity; it was not an offline-model test.

Use the room's approved client and normal permissions. Where the installed
client supports it, the corresponding read-only launch is:

  copilot --no-custom-instructions --disable-builtin-mcps --available-tools skill view glob rg

Do not weaken managed settings to make this command run. If the room client or
model cannot perform the preview, use the cached evidence page and name the limit.
This tool-limited presenter session is not the student's writable lab session.

THE EXACT CLOCK

00-05 | Slides 1-3 | Welcome and begin managed-account sign-in.
  Establish NF's repeated delivery problem and the one-skill outcome.
  A co-facilitator can help sign-in while the teaching block proceeds.

05-20 | Slides 4-13 | Topic + demo.
  Separate the feature brief from the repeatable delivery procedure.
  Explain instructions, prompts, agents, SKILLS, hooks, MCP, LSP, plugins,
  and marketplace. Use the dinner request versus reusable recipe analogy.
  Show the actual SKILL structure, phase boundaries, recorded production
  rollout, and one bounded local-evidence preview. Do not install nine tools.
  Use the speaker notes for the individual slide timeboxes.

20-24 | Slide 14 | Paste one prompt; GitHub Copilot CLI builds the SKILL.
  Open lab-guide.html. Use its comprehensive prompt in GitHub Copilot CLI chat.
  GitHub Copilot CLI creates the file from parts 01-06 and explains the checkpoints.
  Manual assembly is a recovery option, not the normal attendee instruction.
  Give the rescue or a partner to anyone whose setup is still blocked.

24-27 | Slide 15 | See the SKILL in action.
  /skills reload, then /skills info issue-lifecycle. Confirm the local path.
  Use the ordinary impact-feature preview from the guide without naming the
  SKILL. Confirm that GitHub Copilot CLI loads issue-lifecycle before giving its plan.
  The first preview makes no writes. The supplied repository instructions are
  the automatic-routing entry point; do not omit them from the imported copy.
  Explicit /issue-lifecycle is a diagnostic fallback, not proof of automatic
  selection. Instructions guide a model; they are not a hard enforcement
  boundary. Do not advertise guaranteed enforcement or install policy hooks
  without organizer approval. Rehearse the normal feature request on the room
  client and stop before implementation if it skips the SKILL.

27-30 | Slide 16 | Track adoption and personalize before publication.
  The draft already exists. Record that bootstrap honestly.
  Open/reuse the actual adoption issue, apply "in progress", then stop.
  Ask GitHub Copilot CLI to append the "Next volunteer" local extension, reload, and
  observe that line in a read-only completion preview. Keep the core intact.

30-35 | Slide 17 | Publish and verify.
  Agree explicitly on the classroom's verified branch-handoff gate.
  Paste the guide's finish prompt. GitHub Copilot CLI reviews/stages the SKILL, commits
  with the real issue number, pushes when approved, verifies the remote branch
  and SHA, and documents/closes the issue. Attendees inspect and approve the
  work; they are not asked to type every Git command by hand.
  Respect stricter room policy. A failed write remains visibly pending.

35-40 | Slide 18 | Optional feature or consolidate the SKILL.
  Once the SKILL is ready, introduce the team's ten new requests. Pick any
  brief, or take on all ten over time. Work through choices one at a time,
  using the SKILL for each new issue, scoped change, and completion record.
  Fast finishers can continue the queue later. Stop new work at minute 40.

40-45 | Slides 19-21 | Share and wrap.
  Ask for the SKILL path, observed behavior, one personalization, and evidence.
  Distinguish the writable starter from the optional reference companion.
  Choose one repeated workflow to capture next week. Finish at minute 45.

Slides 22-23 are hidden recovery/evidence appendices, not extra session time.
The PDF includes both appendices for reference.

PRESENTER DEMO PROMPT

Use the local issue-lifecycle SKILL for a read-only classroom preview.
Read evidence\nf-rollout.json and draft the completion record it supports.
This is cached real evidence, not live GitHub data. Issue 345 is recorded as
already closed. Preserve the operator-assisted completion limitation.

Use only the local SKILL and JSON record. Do not contact GitHub, run live
identity/permission checks, change any file, create or reopen an issue, post
a comment, commit, push, or deploy. You have no authority for those operations.
Do not claim a live check or successful unattended finish. If you cannot
verify something from the local record, say so. Return a concise draft with
What changed, Why, Acceptance checks, Evidence, and Follow-ups, clearly marked
PREVIEW / RECORDED EVIDENCE / NO WRITES.

WHAT TO POINT OUT

The model is applying a reusable procedure, not discovering new website facts.
The local record says PR #346 merged and issue #345 closed. An unattended
finish verified the gate but could not obtain tool approval for its comment.
The owner separately authorized operator-assisted completion writes.
The existing owner/admin review exemption was explicitly approved for that PR;
there was no independent approving review, protection change, or failed-check
override. Never generalize this exception into the attendee workflow.

The recorded merge SHA is:
856986174ddfbf62b3a09c968dbcf7f51ebb35b2

The public demo IDs are evidence, not attendee issue numbers or lab targets.
This was a skill-only rollout, not a newly deployed website feature.

THREE RECOVERY LANES

1. SKILL discovery/selection failure:
   Check path and capitalization, save, reload/info, and explicitly invoke.
   Preserve the attendee's draft before copying the inactive rescue core.

2. GitHub unavailable or a permission denied, while GitHub Copilot CLI still works:
   Keep the real error. With explicit approval, continue locally and use the
   LOCAL-EVIDENCE template. Record actual files/checks, local SHA if one exists,
   and outstanding online steps. Say LOCAL ONLY / PENDING ONLINE.

3. Model service unavailable:
   Assemble the six parts manually, explain the decisions with a partner, and
   inspect cached evidence. The file can be complete; runtime is unverified.

Pair with a working seat where appropriate. Never turn a cached page into a
claimed live demonstration or an exit code into proof of a successful write.

SCOPE AND HONEST LIMITS

The comparison used two closed simulated scenarios and one run per version
per scenario: 10/10 selected assertions for the new core, 5/10 for the old.
That is not a reliability percentage across real-world use or the ten briefs.
The ten challenges have local assets and acceptance criteria; ten generated
feature implementations have not been completed and tested.

Original geometric avatars illustrate coding characters. They are not portraits
or inferred likenesses. Blog and project content is labeled workshop sample data.
Keep plain HTML/CSS and optional ordinary JavaScript. No backend, image API,
deployment, payments, or collection of participant/student personal information.

The local package does not prove venue import, external file access, a portal
submission, or a sent organizer email. Follow the approved retention/export
process for managed laptops and separately confirm the distribution route.
